mmm i have a weird craving for
liver and fava beans
hey hungry fans Julia here for
dnews cannibalism if you're a
Hannibal fan you're not
squeamish around the subject of
people eating other people but
it's one of the biggest taboos
in human history but not in
nature sometimes it's a family
affair mother's eat babies
babies feed off mom or a mom
eats dad
other times it's warring
factions of the same species
like chimps in Gombe National
Park who ate neighboring groups
offspring as described in a
study published in the journal
nature but I don't humans do it
well simply put it's not
socially acceptable
come on just the thought of it
is repulsive and with good
reason it can cause nasty
diseases like prion disease
which we know that's
Crutchfield's yeah cups disease
or mad cow disease prion disease
is caused from a Miss folding
protein molecules in the brain
which can happen for a variety
of reasons like a fluke genetics
or eating contaminated meat the
misfolded proteins will spread
until the brain is basically
transformed into a sponge
riddled with holes and eats away
at memory causes seizures and
it's ultimately fatal while
incredibly rare now prior
diseases might have been more
common in history
this is where things get
interesting prion diseases might
be rare now thanks to
cannibalism you see researchers
found that a tribe in Papua New
Guinea has a genetic mutation
that protects them from prion
disease the tribe used to
practice funerary cannibalism
where members of the tribe would
eat the remains of the deceased
rather than burning them the men
would eat the best meet the
media muscles while women and
children ate less good meet the
brain and not surprisingly they
were devastated by an epidemic
of what they called kuru of
prion disease at its peak in the
nineteen fifties the epidemic
kill two percent of the
population every year as the tri
became westernized the
cannibalism stopping cool began
to fade into memory but those
that were left behind developed
and genetic resistance to prion
disease according to a study
published in the journal Nature
the study found that this
resistance is the result of the
mutation where the body produces
an amino acid valine rather than
the more common glycine this
change prevents proteins in the
brain from producing this
old prions but a similar
mutation might have appeared
before and often a study
published in the journal Science
showed a different mutation in
the same tribe that also
prevented prion disease in
another way but more shockingly
they found widespread evidence
of this mutation was found in
most humans from Europe to Japan
the researchers suggest that
most early humans practice some
form of cannibalism and probably
suffered massive epidemics of
prion diseases and hence why a
large portion of the world's
population now has some
protection from these diseases
but protection from diseases and
the only benefit to cannibalism
in a study published in the
Journal of human evolution
researchers found that 800,000
years ago our ancestors killed
and ate the young of neighboring
tribes as part of a territorial
defense strategy as the young of
the neighborhood group wanders
far from home they might attack
and kill the young as a kind of
warning to the other group the
sort of defense strategy can be
seen today in some populations
of chimpanzees the defensive
more fair are the only reasons
for cannibalism simple hunger
might drive people to dine on
their neighbors another study
published in the Journal of
human evolution suggested that
eating a group member can help
conserve energy
one of the lead authors of the
study told Discovery News the
body can give one day off from
hunting which was always
dangerous at that time and I
mean human body contains a lot
of calories
according to James Cole a
professor on human origins at
the University of Brighton puts
the calorie count of the human
body at about 80 1,500 calories
so that's fun news day now as
you watch Hannibal you can be
proud that it celebrates our
heritage
oh man nope it's still extremely
disturbing well you might be
grossed out by cannibalism some
new moms are eating their
placentas to get the whole
sticky scoop check out this
video right here
humans are among the few animals
who don't practice placenta
faiza almost all land mammals
eat there after birth and that
fact is a common one that people
cite when they do go on to eat
their placentas so there you
have it folks humans once ate
other humans love to break down
the weird stuff here at dnews
so if you've got any weird
questions floating around in
that brain of yours leave them
down in the comments below don't
forget to hit those like and
subscribe buttons and keep going
back
dnews so you don't miss a single
episode